That was earlier today.
Early voting in Texas is underway
in the Democratic primary for the state's 28th Congressional
District.
The seat currently belongs to Henry Cuellar.
He's been in Congress since 2005, but back in January,
his home was raided as part of an FBI investigation
into Azerbaijan and several US businessmen.
Cuellar's toughest competitor is progressive candidate Jessica
Cisneros.
The immigration attorney previously ran against Cuellar
in 2020.
She lost that primary battle by a little less than 2,700 votes.
This year's primary is on March 1.
Aaron Navarro is from the CBS News political unit
and is here with us.
He has been following that race.
Aaron, I understand that Cisneros
has been endorsed by the progressive wing of the party
like AOC, like Bernie Sanders.
But you have talked directly to voters
about how they felt about this FBI raid at Cuellar's home.
Let's take a listen first and get back to you.
The fact that politicians have to raise so much money--
and this is all of them, right?
They are forced to raise all of this money continuously
in order to support their offices, the travel, the work
that they do.
And so it doesn't surprise me that sometimes people
can take advantage of that.
A lot of that stuff doesn't surprise me.
I just follow the candidates who don't
accept political contributions from companies and high donors.
I just feel they're more prone to corruption.
Well, you know the FBI raid was not a good look.
But, Aaron, what's your sense on how the FBI investigation is
impacting this race, if at all?
Hi, Lilia.
Thanks for having me.
So it depends who you ask, really,
but it seems like from our conversations
with voters is that it hasn't changed anyone's mind
that was already made up.
As you mentioned, Cuellar has represented this district
since 2005, so a good amount of constituents already know him
and how they feel about him, and it
seems like he's retaining that support.
His campaign claims the impact has been,
quote, unquote, "minimal" on the race,
and we had a couple voters that seemed
to weigh the raid at a lower level compared
to his work in the district, particularly on the border
and money he's brought to the district
through his role on the House Appropriations Committee.
And when you talk to progressives,
they say that the raid confirms what they already
thought about Cuellar, that he is,
quote, unquote, bought by corporate PACs
and outside interests.
But they were already looking to vote for Cisneros
through the issues like health care
and raising the minimum wage, so the direct impact
of the raid actually changing minds remains to be seen.
I mean, the gap between them was so small.
I mean that margin in votes last time around.
What's different this time around?
Of course if I were a politician,
I'd be running on that FBI raid.
And I'm sure if Cuellar were to win the nomination,
then he would be facing very harsh ads, perhaps,
from the Republican candidate.
But what is Cisneros doing?
What's at stake?
Tell me a little bit more about her run this time around.
Sure.
And Cisneros immediately after the FBI raid,
her and the Justice Democrats group that is backing her
did run ads about this race.
But when it comes to what's different
this go around is the fact that you
have a bit of a different kind of district.
The new map puts a bit more of San Antonio
and some rural counties into the district,
and that is where Cisneros says the FBI
raid could make an impact because there are new voters.
We talked to Jessica Cisneros on the trail,
and here's what she had to say about the new map.
I think we're focusing a lot on the areas that
are new to our district, including some of the two
counties around here, which are Duval and Jim Hogg,
and then also introducing our campaign
to those in the northern part of San Antonio and Guadalupe
County.
We were able to put our race in front
of so many Democratic voters last time around,
but the district is now new, right?
There's newer components to it, so it's allowed us--
the fact that people in the old district know who we are,
it's allowed us to dedicate space and resources
to introduce our campaign to those new voters.
So for us, it's making sure that they know who we are
and turning them out.
And I think it's not a good first impression
for a lot of those voters that the incumbent has
been subjected to an FBI raid so close to the election.
There seem to be such stark differences between these two
candidates.
What does this race mean for the progressive movement
at large within the Democratic Party?
So off bat, this is the first true test
of progressive energy in a cycle that looks a bit
unfavorable for Democrats.
In 2018 when you had candidates like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,
they were going into an environment that looked good
for House Democrats, and in 2020, they
seemed that they were poised to keep the majority,
and they did.
And you also have a handful of progressive challengers
this election cycle where a Cisneros win or loss could give
a lot of tea leaves for the rest of the challengers
and how those races could go.
And secondly, progressives have gone
after moderate members over the stall in President Biden's
agenda.
Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez rallied for Cisneros
this past weekend, and part of her rally remarks
were like, look, it's not just Joe Manchin or Kyrsten
Sinema that's blocking the Biden agenda.
It's moderate House Democrats like Henry Cuellar that
pushed for the passing of infrastructure
without the Build Back Better plan.
If Cisneros wins this, you can expect progressives
to incorporate bringing up the [INAUDIBLE]
on the trail in their own challenges.
Not to mention Cuellar's position on abortion rights
too.
Republicans are looking to play in this district in November,
of course, even though it has been historically Democratic.
What do you think that is all about?
So it mainly stems from the gains
they were able to make in 2020 in south Texas
and with the Hispanic community.
They were able to flip Zapata County, which
is in this district.
It's a more rural area in the district.
And Zapata County went from voting
for Hillary Clinton in 2016 by 33 points to President Trump
by 6 points.
And while Cuellar still won that county in his general election
race in November of 2020, that's a pretty big shift.
Republicans are looking to build on this.
They have established community centers
in Laredo and San Antonio.
A lot of the Republican officials and voters
we talked to say they've just been
able to be more vocal about their political stances
as the margins get better for them.
They say the party stances on immigration
and conservative social values such as being
antiabortion resonate with certain communities
in the district.
And lastly, right next to this district you have Texas's 15.
That's an open seat left by House Democrat Vicente
Gonzalez, who decided to run in a politically safer seat,
and that is one of the prime pickup opportunities
for House Republicans.
So you have another district that's
pretty similar at play, similar trends
there in the Texas 28th district.
The Republicans are definitely looking to make a play.
Aaron Navarro, thank you so much for breaking this
all down for us.